What is a personal calling? It is God’s blece:

is the path that God chose for you here Essing, it
Whenever we do something that fills us ey Earth,
asm, we are following our legend. However “nthusi.
all have the courage to confront our own oe we dot
There are four obstacles. First, we are ah oo
childhood onwards that everything we want t va
impossible. We grow up with this idea, aE So is
years accumulate, so too do the layers of — the
fear and guilt. There comes a time when ou tei

ay iT pe
calling is so deeply buried in our soul as to rely,
s-

ible. But it’s still there.

If we have the courage to disinter our dream we
then faced by the second obstacle: love. We ktiow: ae
we want to do, but are afraid of hurting those Sea
us by abandoning everything in order to pursue ou:
dream. We do not realize that love is just a firthet
sore a something that will prevent us going for-
wan Y aoe iu genuinely wish us well want
that journey.
® ae “ es eoeed that love is a stimulus, we

te - ” third obstacle: fear of the defeats
ite ie path. We who fight for our dream
ar more when it doesn’t work out, because we

Prepared to accompany us on

 

‘iii

 

FONTS esa ad eae Le

warriors of light must be prepared to have patience in
difficult times and to know that the Universe is con-
spiring in our favor, even though we may not under-
stand how.

| ask myself: are defeats necessary? Well, necessary
or not, they happen. When we first begin fighting for
our dream, we have no experience and make many mis-
takes. The secret of life, though, is to fall seven times
and to get up eight times.

So, why is it so important to live our personal call-
ing if we are only going to suffer more than other
people? Because once we have overcome the defeats —
and we always do—we are filled with a greater sense
of euphoria and confidence. In the silence of our
hearts, we know that we are proving ourselves worthy
of the miracle of life. Each day, each hour, is part of the
good fight. We start to live with enthusiasm and pleas-
ure. Intense, unexpected suffering passes more quickly
than suffering that is apparently bearable; the latter
goes on for years and, without our noticing, eats away
at our soul, until, one day, we are no longer able to free
ourselves from the bitterness and it stays with us for
the rest of our lives.

Having disinterred our dream, having used the
power of love to nurture it and spent many years liv-
ing with the scars, we suddenly notice that what we
always wanted is there, waiting for us, perhaps the
very next day. Then comes the cle: the fear
of realizing the dream for
all our lives.